---
title: "Investigating overlapping gestures in acoustic signals: the case of fricatives and sonorants in clusters"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/F0_Dynamics
date: 2019-11-05
venue: 'Proceedings of the XXth International Congress of Phonetic Sciences'
paperurl: '/files/paper1-2.pdf'
link: 'https://doi.org/10.21827/32.8310/2022-SG-69'
abstract: "It is investigated whether the difference between sonorants and fricatives in terms of overlapping articulatory gestures can be tracked in the acoustic signal. To this aim, a new method using spectral comparisons is introduced to make possible the consistent analysis of speech sounds characterised by markedly different acoustic features. The efficiency of this method is tested by evaluating overlapping articulatory gestures in French initial CCV syllables with either a fricative or a sonorant as C2 (N=1904). The stimuli were produced by 20 native speakers of Belgian French who participated in a reading task. The main findings confirm the results of previous articulatory studies, indicating that sonorants exhibit longer articulatory overlap with the following vowels than fricatives. By obtaining consistent results, this paper validates the suggested method for evaluating the dynamics of overlapping articulatory gestures."
excerpt:  "It is investigated whether the difference between sonorants and fricatives in terms of overlapping articulatory gestures can be tracked in the acoustic signal. To this aim, a new method using spectral comparisons is introduced to make possible the consistent analysis of speech sounds characterised by markedly different acoustic features. The efficiency of this method is tested by evaluating overlapping articulatory gestures in French initial CCV syllables with either a fricative or a sonorant as C2 (N=1904). The stimuli were produced by 20 native speakers of Belgian French who participated in a reading task. The main findings confirm the results of previous articulatory studies, indicating that sonorants exhibit longer articulatory overlap with the following vowels than fricatives. By obtaining consistent results, this paper validates the suggested method for evaluating the dynamics of overlapping articulatory gestures."
citation: '<b>Genette</b>, <b>J.</b>, (in press). Investigating overlapping gestures in acoustic signals: the case of fricatives and sonorants in clusters. In Proceedings of the XXth International Congress of Phonetic Sciences.'
pubtype: 'conf paper'
header:
  teaser: "/images/research/hearing.png"
---
